Add doc for faucet (#7658)
MystenLabs/sui: doc/src/build/faucet.md

---
title: Requesting Gas Tokens from Faucet
---

> Sui faucet is a helpful tool where Sui developers can get free test SUI tokens to deploy and interact with their programs on Sui's DevNet and TestNet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sui faucet is a helpful tool where Sui developers can get free test SUI tokens to deploy and interact with their programs on Sui's Devnet and Testnet.
```

> Test tokens can be requested in the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can request test tokens in the following ways:
```

> ## Pre-requisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

> To request tokens from the faucet, one must own a wallet address that can receive the SUI tokens. An address can be generated via the [Sui CLI tool](https://docs.sui.io/devnet/build/cli-client#active-address) or the [Sui wallet](https://docs.sui.io/devnet/explore/wallet-browser).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To request tokens from the faucet, you must own a wallet address that can receive the SUI tokens. You can generate an address via the [Sui CLI tool](../build/cli-client.md#active-address) or the [Sui wallet](../explore/wallet-browser.md).
```

## 1. Request test tokens through Discord

1. Join [Discord](https://discord.gg/sui).

>    If you try to join the Sui Discord channel using a newly created Discord account you may need to wait a few days for validation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you try to join the Sui Discord channel using a newly created Discord account, you may need to wait a few days for validation.
```

> 1. Request test SUI tokens in the Sui [#devnet-faucet](https://discord.com/channels/916379725201563759/971488439931392130) or [#testnet-faucet](https://discord.com/channels/916379725201563759/1037811694564560966) Discord channel. Note that the TestNet faucet is only available when TestNet is live.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Request test SUI tokens in the Sui [#devnet-faucet](https://discord.com/channels/916379725201563759/971488439931392130) or [#testnet-faucet](https://discord.com/channels/916379725201563759/1037811694564560966) Discord channels. Note that the Testnet faucet is only available while Testnet is live.
```

   Send the following message to the channel with your client address:

>    !faucet <Your client address>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `!faucet <Your client address>`
```

## 2. Request test tokens through wallet

> You can request test tokens within the [Sui wallet](https://docs.sui.io/devnet/explore/wallet-browser#add-sui-tokens-to-your-sui-wallet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can request test tokens within [Sui Wallet](../explore/wallet-browser.md#add-sui-tokens-to-your-sui-wallet).
```

> Note: This option will be disabled for TestNet in TestNet Wave 2. Please use Discord channel instead for TestNet Wave 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** This option is disabled for Testnet in Testnet Wave 2. Use the Discord channels instead for Testnet Wave 2.
```

> ## 3. Request test tokens through Curl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Request test tokens through cURL
```

> You can also use the following Curl command to request tokens directly from the faucet server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following cURL command to request tokens directly from the faucet server:
```

```
curl --location --request POST 'https://faucet.devnet.sui.io/gas' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Cookie: __cf_bm=DZ4EG6GULlrwnyZMGoqwFjD8p6trJzWsY0LxvHd.NJs-1674598151-0-ARjqPuQjq1efkiQX6ItAI/4QejXhgHfA5rgr8oNoKiRskODMvTraH7VHGx7PF7IjgvEJTbIRB52Yia/Z6UfVlpo=; _cfuvid=hwMbc_CMbJrDSx2dM9tblANlIrpdLoCGFTbOdAhl4HM-1674172742724-0-604800000' \
--data-raw '{
    "FixedAmountRequest": {
        "recipient": "<YOUR SUI ADDRESS>"
    }
}'
```

> Replace `'https://faucet.devnet.sui.io/gas'` with `http://127.0.0.1:5003/gas` when working with local network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace `'https://faucet.devnet.sui.io/gas'` with `http://127.0.0.1:5003/gas` when working with a local network.
```

> Note: This option will be disabled for TestNet in TestNet Wave 2. Please use Discord channel instead for TestNet wave 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** This option is disabled for Testnet in Testnet Wave 2. Use the Discord channels instead for Testnet Wave 2.
```

## 4. Request test tokens through TypeScript SDK

You can also access the faucet through the TS-SDK.

```
import { JsonRpcProvider, Network } from '@mysten/sui.js';
// connect to Devnet
const provider = new JsonRpcProvider(Network.DEVNET);

> // get tokens from the DevNet faucet server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// get tokens from the Devnet faucet server
```

await provider.requestSuiFromFaucet(
  '<YOUR SUI ADDRESS>'
);
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Note: This option will be disabled for TestNet in TestNet Wave 2. Please use Discord channel instead for TestNet wave 2.
```

## 3. Request test tokens through Curl

You can also use the following Curl command to request tokens directly from the faucet server.

```
curl --location --request POST 'https://faucet.devnet.sui.io/gas' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--header 'Cookie: __cf_bm=DZ4EG6GULlrwnyZMGoqwFjD8p6trJzWsY0LxvHd.NJs-1674598151-0-ARjqPuQjq1efkiQX6ItAI/4QejXhgHfA5rgr8oNoKiRskODMvTraH7VHGx7PF7IjgvEJTbIRB52Yia/Z6UfVlpo=; _cfuvid=hwMbc_CMbJrDSx2dM9tblANlIrpdLoCGFTbOdAhl4HM-1674172742724-0-604800000' \
--data-raw '{
    "FixedAmountRequest": {
        "recipient": "<YOUR SUI ADDRESS>"
    }
}'
```

Replace `'https://faucet.devnet.sui.io/gas'` with `http://127.0.0.1:5003/gas` when working with local network.

Note: This option will be disabled for TestNet in TestNet Wave 2. Please use Discord channel instead for TestNet wave 2.

## 4. Request test tokens through TypeScript SDK

You can also access the faucet through the TS-SDK.

```
import { JsonRpcProvider, Network } from '@mysten/sui.js';
// connect to Devnet
const provider = new JsonRpcProvider(Network.DEVNET);
// get tokens from the DevNet faucet server
await provider.requestSuiFromFaucet(
  '<YOUR SUI ADDRESS>'
);
```

> Note: This option will be disabled for TestNet in TestNet Wave 2. Please use Discord channel instead for TestNet wave 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** This option is disabled for Testnet in Testnet Wave 2. Use the Discord channels instead for Testnet Wave 2.
```
